---
layout: post
title:  "New WEDGI, New Me"
date:   2016-12-30 3:32:11
categories: writing
---

I feel a little ambivalent about New Year's resolutions. On the one hand, they represent hopes and dreams for the future. How beautiful, to start the year fresh, an adult-sized newborn ready to eat extra vegetables or start going to the gym more than once every other blue moon or stop wasting so much time on Facebook. On the other hand, time is a social construct---I mean, my best friend will be with her parents in China on New Year's Eve, because the Chinese New Year is on January 28th and, in China, December 31st will be just another Saturday and January 1st will be just another Sunday, so of course it makes sense for some Chinese pharmaceutical conference to be scheduled on the one holiday when Sophia Yin should be sitting in my basement, drinking champagne mixed with raspberry lemonade and watching a giant glittering ball descend down a flagpole in Times Square, instead of sitting in some crowd of really smart people listening to her parents lecture on complex chemical structures. What I'm trying to say is, you could make a resolution to change your life any time of the year. Why wait for "New year, new me!" or "Chinese new year, new me!" when you can shake things up any day? "Tuesday 5pm, new me!" might not have the same ring to it, but the resolution could still prove fruitful.
Nonetheless, I am a citizen of this weird time----structured world with all its arbitrary rituals---so I have decided to pursue a New Year's resolution of my own:
Write one thing every day.
I might include short stories, microfiction, haiku, memoirs, free verse poetry, examinations of psychological research---whatever shows up in my head when inspiration strikes. Ideally, I'd try to keep this up daily for a year and then the habit would just sort of continue for the rest of my life. But, because I'd like to be slightly more realistic, I'm going to start with a goal of 1 month of writing every day.
On a semi-related note that will make more sense in a moment:
I love NPR. I listen to their shows on the 4-hour drive between my childhood home in Indiana and my college home in St. Louis. I read their articles as they appear on my Facebook News Feed. I click "like" on all their articles on my Facebook News Feed after I read them. I would put an NPR bumper sticker on my car, but I'm not really a bumper sticker kind of person, though I do respect those who are bumper sticker kinds of people. I have a lot of dreams, and one of them is to write for NPR... but they currently only have legal internships open and the most legal jargon I know is "plead the fifth" and that sound from the Law and Order: SVU intro that goes *dun dun*, so I've been focusing on other dreams for the time being.
This year, on my birthday, I received a delightful birthday present: NPR published an [article](http://www.npr.org/sections/thetwo-way/2016/12/15/505419422/ads-for-nicer-living-make-your-pitch-for-what-makes-life-better) requesting brief written submissions from readers. Even better, the prompt asks for 120-word scripts advertising "something that makes life brighter." I spend a lot of time rhapsodizing on the magic of life's little gifts---the satisfaction of staring at a bright blue sky, the feeling of accomplishment when you recognize a song after only the first few notes like some kind of music expert, the way water feels like *the greatest thing on earth* after you've been running around outside on a hot day for the sake of another one of those arbitrary rituals, cardio. I ponder these things mostly in my head, but sometimes also in extended monologues to my mother who is usually only half-listening. So, of course, I'm excited that NPR would like me to share my joy about random, underappreciated things that brighten my otherwise dingy existence. I'm planning to submit however many ideas come to mind over the next two weeks and, thus, (Tada! Here we are, back to the New Year's resolution thing.) I will use this prompt to kick off my **"Write Every Day, Gemma." Initiative**. Over the course of WEDGI[^1], I will attempt to post my writing on this website each day. We'll see what happens.
As a pre-resolution aperitif, listed below are a few of the ads I wrote the other night while lying awake in bed, because my brain believes that sleep is for the weak when you have lots of thinking you could be doing instead.

[^1]: I cannot take much credit for the acronym. It was a happy accident, honestly.

